the heads of 18 United Nations and other
humanitarian agencies have issued a
joint statement calling for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza almost
10,000 people have died there since the
conflict began a month ago the latest
round of Israeli air strikes has
targeted densely populated areas and
refugee camps well Toby frer is joining
us live from Aman he's from UNICEF the
un's children's agency thank you very
much for being with us of those large
numbers the
9,770 Palestinian dead I'm seeing
4,800 of those are children and in one
can only imagine the kind of
psychological State and the impact that
all of this is having on children who
are Left Alive talk to us about the kind
of conditions that children are facing
in Gaza at the
moment yeah I mean the situation right
now you know is catastrophic for for
children across the Gaza Strip you know
it's been 30 days since the horrific
attacks inside Israel and now the this
this catastrophic number of deaths and
injuries of of children you know across
the Gaza Strip and um you know what we
know is that the every day day in day
out children are first of all trying to
survive so families doing whatever they
can to best protect their children we
have around 1.5 million people displaced
and that means families children living
in even more densely populated shelters
trying to seek safety uh and then at the
same time you have this massive um
concern over you know access to safe
water access to medical facilities
trying to support and keeping those
hospitals running uh given they are you
virtually on on the brink now so so
there's a whole uh culmination of of
huge issues and that's why it's so
important that Unis un you we keep
calling for to scale up you humanitarian
access as well um because the impact on
on children is massive both from the
ongoing intense hostilities but also the
concerns over other issues arising such
as outbreaks of diseases tell me what
the UNICEF presence was in Gaza before
the conflict and and what it what it's
like
now yeah I mean UNICEF has worked in
inside the Gaza Strip for for many years
um and we still have our teams on the
ground there you know doing whatever
they can despite the situation uh so we
are still moving you know supplies
around mainly in the in the southern
part of the Gaza Strip right now and
trying to reach children families
wherever they are you we've heard from
staff of of the dangers of of how
they're trying to survive look after
their own children you know children who
like a four-year-old daughter of one of
our staff members who she was saying
that she was like ripping her hair
scratching her thighs until they ble
there's this massive massive distress of
living through this every day and we
know how dangerous it is for
humanitarian workers unra the UN
Palestine Refugee agency have had 88
staff members killed the highest number
of un workers killed in any conflict um
so the impact is massive it's extremely
dangerous to do the work and at the same
time for staff members to look after
their their own families I would imagine
also it can be very difficult for Unicef
members UNICEF staff to be able to find
people particularly of course if there's
a Communications blackout which we've
seen happen I think this is maybe the
second or third time that that it's
happened talk to us about how much of a
hindrance that can
be that's right no I mean the
communications blackouts um have a
massive impact so what we've seen over
the last 12 hours now um was a blackout
my understanding is that communication
is being restored um but every time this
happens it's it's it's isolating you
know it's isolating people in the Gaza
Strip it's isolating them from their
friends from their families from their
ability to be able to contact uh family
members or contact urgent support within
the Gaza ship but it's also very very
difficult obviously for for Unicef for
un and others who working in the G ship
to then communicate with our staff on
the ground and best to and coordinate
sort of the life-saving aid so that it's
a massive concern when we have the these
blackouts of course we we have about 40
seconds or so left but I'm just wanted
to ask you about the the fact that the
heads of 18 United Nations and other
humanitarian agencies are issuing this
joint statement calling for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire how confident
given what you've described can you be
that the Israelis are actually going to
listen and that ceasefire may
happen well the UN our civil society
Partners many many others are calling
out we keep calling out for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire for the release
of all civilian particularly child
hostages inside the Gaza and to scale up
that life-saving age which is so
critical to to save lives now children
who would be more at risk of other
issues breaking out and so we'll keep
doing that and we'll keep advocating
keep pushing for that for that immediate
humanitarian Seaside because it's needed
now as the statement says enough is
enough Toby frier from UNICEF thank you
very much
indeed